# QB3: Fast and Efficient Raster Compression

QB3 is a raster specific lossless compression that usually achieves better compression 
ratio than PNG while being extremely fast for both compression and decompression. 
In addition, it requires almost no memory during operation making it very suitable 
for vectorization and parallelization.
QB3 handles integer values, signed and unsigned, up to 64bit per value. 
If multiple bands are to be compressed together, as is usually the case for color 
images, QB3 can take advange of band to band similarities to compress 
even better.  

# QB3 Library
The library, located in [QB3lib](QB3lib) provides the core QB3 
algorithm implementation and provides a C language API.
It is implemented in standard C++11 and can be build for various platforms using 
cmake. It requires a little endian, two's complement architecture with 8, 16, 32 
and 64 bit integers, which includes the common AMD64 and ARM64 platforms. 
Only 64bit builds should be used, since the implementation makes heavy use of 64 
bit values.

# Use
[QB3.h](QB3lib/QB3.h) contains the public C API.  
Opaque encoder and decoder control structures have to be created, then options and 
values can be set and querried and then the encode or decode functions can be 
called.  
The data type size can be 8, 16, 32 or 64 bit integer. The signed or unsigned 
nature of the data type is not relevant.
There are two QB3 encoders. The default encoder is the fastest. The second 
encoder tries an additional way of encoding which may result in better compression 
but is slightly slower. For 8bit data, the difference in compression ratio is 
usually negligible. There is only one decoder.  
The QB3 bit stream that is generated by the QB3 encoder does not contain any 
metadata whatsoever. This means that the decoder needs to be told what type of 
data to decode as well as raster size, number of bands and inter-band setting. 
In general any bitstream can be decoded and should not generate errors, calling
the decoder with incorrect metadata settings will generate undefined output.
